- When multiple beans have the same type,
we need to specify to CDI
which bean should be injected at an injection point.
To do this,
we use qualifiers in CDI.
CDI contains multiple built-in qualifiers
that can be used,
and we are able to build our own custom qualifiers
when necessary.
By default, every bean and injection point
has the any and default annotations
that are used as qualifiers
when there are no qualifiers explicitly declared.
It's just assumed to be applied.
You'll notice that within our application,
we now another instance of the inventory service
that will be created as a bean within our CDI container.
Now this is going to create a problem.
We can see that problem if we attempt
to run our application.
When CDI looks for a bean to inject
into this injection point,
it's going to have an error.
That's because it doesn't know
whether it should use our remote inventory service bean,
or whether it should use the local inventory service bean.
You'll notice that it detected both of these qualifiers
on the beans which are there by default,
and it caused an error
because there were ambiguous beans
that could satisfy that dependency
for our catalog item form bean.
What we can do is we can add one of the qualifiers,
and that's named.
Named allows us to provide a name for our bean.
By default, it will be the class name of the bean,
camel cased with the first letter lower cased.
We'll just go ahead and type it out.
Then what we can do is copy that named annotation
that we've added to our remote inventory service bean,
and we can apply that at the injection point.
If we navigate down to our inventory service field,
we can go ahead and paste that qualifier.
That's going to instruct CDI that we would like to use
the remote inventory service bean.
It's able to resolve the issues with the duplicate types.
Let's go back.
What I'm going to do is I will publish our application.
Then I'm going to go ahead and restart the server.
This time we can watch the console.
You'll see that it's able to resolve the ambiguous nature
of those types.
So there we have the application up.
We can open up Chrome,
and we'll watch the console while we do this.
I'll go ahead and clear it.
Then we can navigate to our form.
Here we're going to add in a product.
When we submit it,
you'll notice that our console output
indicates that the remote inventory service was used.
There's another way that we can provide qualifiers,
and that's by building custom qualifiers
within our application.
Let's create a new qualifier.
Just open up the new dialogue.
Then select qualifier annotation.
Here we'll need to provide a name for our custom qualifier.
In this case, we're going to name this
the remote service qualifier.
Then we can just go ahead and hit finish.
Then we can go ahead and save our new qualifier.
Now we're going to apply that annotation
on the remote inventory service.
I'll add that.
There we can select it.
Then we'll navigate over to our catalog item form bean.
We're going to remove the named annotation.
Then we'll add the remote service annotation.
That's serving as our qualifier,
instructing CDI which instance of the bean
we would like to use.
I'm then going to navigate back to our server.
I'm going to re-publish the application.
Then just to be safe,
I'm going to go ahead,
and I'll restart the server.
Okay, the server started.
Let's go back.
We can navigate to the form.
Let's expand our console
so that we can see that output.
Once again,
we're going to be selecting
the remote inventory service bean
from our CDI container.
That will be because we've specified
this custom qualifier.
All right.
There you can see that indeed,
the remote inventory service was selected,
and that was the bean injected by the CDI container.
That wraps it up for a look at the built-in qualifiers
as well as the custom qualifiers
found within CDI.